Hello and welcome to another Java tutorial.
We're going to continue our discussion on Java Native Image and how to compile our Java application
to Native binaries.
And one important thing for this process to understand is the command line argument, because we saw
that native executable binaries, the only way that you interact with them is through the command line,
right?
You execute them through the command line and then they're the only way you can pass information to
the application is using the command line arguments.
And I showed you how to pass the command line arguments to a C++ application.
And as I mentioned, most compilers enforce the fact that the main method must be the entry point or
executable application.
If you don't add the main method, then the compiler refuses to compile, but then you can still compile
your application to libraries.
So library means it's something it's a collection of functions or methods, right?
That don't need to be executed.
But you can use these functions in other programs or in other applications.
And we saw that if you don't provide any RC or RTV to your main function in C++, the compiler assumes
that you're not taking any you're not your application is not going to ask for any command line arguments
from the user.
So you are allowed to remove this signature and you can say int main empty round brackets and then put
your applications.
And we said that in modern C++ you don't even you are even not required to return zero.
Right.
We know that the return code or the exit code of your application, if it successfully terminates,
it's zero, but you're not required to do that.
So modern C++ relaxes a lot of things.
And we said that if you want to ask the user for arguments or information, you have to provide two
things.
That's because arrays, you have to provide an array of strings, which is very similar to Jehovah main
method.
But then the problem with built in arrays in C++ or C basically is that you don't know the length of
the array, so you have to provide also into RC and remember these two, the user doesn't provide this.
The operating system or the terminal provides this to the, to the application.
So basically operating system and knows some extra stuff or it does some extra stuff when you run your
native application in the terminal.
And we saw that the same story happens in Java.
Java makes some stuff easier.
First of all, the main method returns void because it doesn't make sense to return zero if it's not
mandatory to return it anyways.
And then you don't need to provide the number of arguments because we know that built in arrays in Java
they actually have a final field called length.
So you are always aware that how many elements are there.
So again, the main method is a public so that the JV team has to be able to access the type that encloses
this main or the class that has this main.
And it should be a static because the JVM has to be able to invoke the main method without even being
a without any need to create an instance.
And it has to be void because the main is not retaining anything.
And we say that in C++, the first string in this ARG, we or we can say it's ARG V array, right?
An array of array of characters and array of characters means it's a string and then an array of strings.
A string is a star, right?
So an array of a strings.
So in C++, the count is actually if you pass one argument, the count is actually two.
And this array has two elements.
The first element in this string array is always the name of the application.
Actually, the exact thing that you type in the terminal to execute, you can type a relative path to
your native binary or a full path to where your executable file is.
Right?
And that arg v that arg v.
The first argument is always the exact thing that you type in the command line for the name of the application.
We enjoy what we said that this is not what it happens because you launch your Java application using
JVM in a slightly different way because you have to invoke the Java application, which is your Java
and then set the class path and after that.
So basically you're using your invoking or executing your Java binary, which is your Java, and you
specify the class path, all the directories that your job application is, and then you specify the
fully qualified path of the class that has the main method.
Now multiple classes can have the same method.
It can have a main method in your application, but then you can choose at runtime which main method
is the entry point to your application.
Right?
And then after this, after the name of the class that has the main method, you specify the command
line arguments, write anything that comes after the name of the class that has the main method is going
to be considered the command line arguments.
Right.
But we saw that in Java.
You actually have another option when you're using JVM and that is you you can pass some parameters
to the Java application or the Java.
So you pass parameters to JVM instead of passing parameters to your Java application to your main method.
And this adds an extra degree of freedom.
Right?
So let's and we saw an example of this.
I will go back, but before that, let's finish up this.
First of all, you can package your binaries in your Java application, right?
All the class was into an archive which is called a Java archive or Java.
So Java archive jar.
And then a jar file can be executable, but you have to specify a provide a manifest file, manifest
a dot mf.
Right.
And then inside that you have to tell it what the main method is, right?
Which class has the main method?
You have to provide a fully qualified name.
You don't really need to do that in general.
So if you provide the manifest file, then you can directly execute the Java or the Java file, Java
hyphen Java and then pass through the jar file.
Or you can still do this because even in the class path you can specify a zip file or a jar file and
the JVM knows how to go into those files and then access the class files or the binaries.
So even on the class pass, it doesn't have to be a just a directory, it can be a jar file or so.
Right.
And then provide the main class.
The class has the main method inside of Java.
So if you provide the manifest at MF, you can directly execute the jar using the Java hyphen jar command.
Otherwise you have to launch the Java in a similar way right now.
Later you will see that we can even grab the jar file and then compile it to native binary.
But then you have to then provide this manifest at MFW so that the compiler knows which class has the
main method.
Right now what we want to see is let's head back to our eclipse and we saw that previously we can provide
C and ARG, v, right?
Or we can check the name of the arguments that we pass.
And these are called again command line arguments, right?
RC and then arg.
V and we saw that any name that comes after the so let's look at our terminal here.
And if you recall previously we said that you specify the class path, in this case our main class.
Hello, all that class is inside the current directory and then we have to specify or add two more directories
to the class path because our hello world class, which is the main the main method or the entry point
depends on two other class files called class and machine class.
So we have to tell JVM where to find those.
And then you provide the name of the class file that has the main method and then you provide some command
line arguments, right?
Anything that comes after the name of the class file is considered the command line arguments.
But then we said that you can also pass parameters in the format of key equals value to the JV team
to Java application, but you have to specify them with hyphen DX.
All right.
And then these are not passed as inside this string array args, right?
These are not passed to your main application or main method.
These are passed to the Java or Java, right.
But we said that you can actually access these.
So let's run these.
You see, we still have five command line arguments.
Anything, all these strings that come after the name of the main class are considered the basic command
line arguments.
But then you see that we can also access this key value pair, which is the property that is passed
to JVM, and you access them using the system, class system that get property.
And again, so you specified them with hyphen key equals value.
And then when you say hyphen DX and then you pass it to the you write this in between your Java application
and the main class, right?
You have to pass them.
So this is called this is a command line arguments for the JVM, for the job application, not for your
basically main class.
Right.
And then we said that you specify a string, which is the name, which is the key value, right?
And then get property and this returns a string and that's the value.
And then.
You can look at the property and in general there are some predefined system properties and there is
a class called property which extends the hash map properties.
It's just a hash table, right?
So properties can hold any object object and it mainly holds basically a string string.
So both the key and values are strings and.
Basically you can pass parameters as a property to your JV team, but then you can also access them.
So one of the basically one of the important properties are is the basically the path environment variable.
Now, not only you can pass the parameters to your Java application, we saw that when you launch your
application from the terminal, the terminal is aware.
So I'm going to write it here.
So basically terminal is aware of environment variables that you globally define, right path, etc.
But then we want to check.
Sometimes you want to check to see if inside your Java source code right inside your job application,
you can also check for environment variables.
So inside your Java application, you can also check for environment variables.
And again, that's because you're launching your job application from the terminal.
The terminal is aware of those environment variables.
So whenever you launch a executable binary, those environment variables are also available to your
executable binary.
Now the way Java provides it, again, you can still guess that because we are dealing with the Java,
we want to inquire from the Java, we have to use the system class, right?
The system class represents the GM internals as long as as much as they are being, they have been available
to the user.
Right.
Obviously, GM has a lot of internals that developers shouldn't be concerned with, but for example,
a developer should be concerned with whether a particular environment variable is available or not.
For example, I have, for example, latex on my path environment variables.
So if I say which pdf latex, it tells me that it's in the library, take mine.
And the reason is that if I check my path environment variable, I have this library take take being
added to my path environment variable, right?
So if I run Java Command, which means launching a Java application using the Java, then I want to
see inside that if for example, a pdf latex is accessible or not.
Right?
So what I can do, I can inquire the path.
So let's let's see which directories are in path environment variables.
Right.
So we can enquire that.
And in order to do that, you say system get environment envy.
So as you can see, we were getting properties get property is for the extra parameters that you pass
to your JVM as system properties.
But then there is also get environment which returns a map or you can directly get a check for a key
value pair.
Right?
So get environment returns all the environment variables get in there, you give it a specify, you
specify a name and then it checks it returns a string.
And if the string is null, it means that environment variable was not available to the Java application,
your JVM when you launch your JVM from terminal.
So let's go with this.
Let's see if we can find PATH now because the Java API is independent.
So Java API is independent
of the operating system and we know that in Linux and Mac, the environment variables are specified
with dollar.
In Windows, the environment variables are specified with the double percent.
Right?
And in Java you just type the name so you don't care whether it's dollar sign or a percent the Java
because on different platforms you use different JVM, right.
The jobs that are specific to platform it already aware of how to translate this string into the correct
name for the environment variables.
Now this returns a string, right?
So we can say a string path and then we have to check whether this is null or whether it is null or
not.
Right.
So if path equals null, which means a out no environment variable called let's actually bring it so
a string env there or end variable is and then we're going to give it the name path, right?
And then we're going to pass this environment.
Variable name here percent is found.
And in that formatted and in environment variables, right.
So if the JV team or the system class returns a null for this name of this environment, it means it
hasn't been set.
It's not available for to the terminal when you launch your Java application with that terminal because
any environment variable that is available to a terminal will be available to your binary application
as well as well.
Right.
So we're going to say that.
Found.
Environment variable called percent s and in that formatted environment variable.
And then we're going to also print the value print the value out in, right, because this returns a
string.
So what we're going to do, we're going to back here, Java and then here and what we need to do, obviously
we need to compile this first.
So Java C hyphen, remember that we have to specify all the requirements to compile this Java file and
the class path.
Obviously, we have to provide those dependencies called class and machine class on the class path.
So now we recompile and in Java, let's type this again.
Java hyphen CPP and let's run our application and it says name Bob.
So these these are these five are the command line arguments to our Java application name Bob is the
system property.
So the property that we set for the Java and then this one is basically the basically the the environment
variable it says that found environment variable called path and actually we should have a basically
not we instead of printing the name, we have to print a value.
All right.
So let's quickly compile again, Java C, it works and then Java.
And now it says that found environment variable called path.
And here are the values.
And that's correct.
Right.
So basically what happens here is that we are inquiring in inside our source file, right, what environment
variables are available when we launch or when the job application was launched through the terminal.
Any environment variable that is available to the terminal will be available to your binary application
as well.
Right.
So, so you can use them.
So for example, instead of path, let's say class path, we want to see if somebody has set an environment
variable called class path or not.
So let's see, let's compile this and then let's run.
And it says no environment variable called class path found.
Why?
Because I actually basically.
Remove the commented out this class path.
So let's open up a directory here in my home directory.
If you recall, we have this bash RC and then we can just open it with a text editor.
All right.
And you see, I commented out these lines that have the class path.
Let's uncomment these.
All right.
And let's save this.
And then we need to do a source of bash RC.
All right.
And then let's run our job application again.
And now it says found environment variable called class path.
And it has my test three and then test two here, for example.
Right.
So basically what happens here is that in your inside your source file, you can enquire not only for
there our command line arguments that were passed to your main method.
Right?
You can also inquire for the system properties that were set for the Gvm.
So these are set for Gvm at lunchtime in in in the terminal.
And then you can also enquire for the environment variables, the operating system, environment variables
that are available to your terminal at the time the JVM or your job application was launched.
Right.
Again, three different topics.
One, the command line arguments that past your application, the system properties that were set for
your application and then they basically the environment variables that are a property of the operating
system and they were set.
Now there are some reasons that you want to check for the environment variables.
For example, sometimes your application, you are assuming that some other application is installed
on the host operating system, that when your job application is launched, in order to do that, you
can check for it.
For example, let's say I want to check if a basically later.
Basically, we want to make sure that our let's say our application depends on later, right?
Depends on the fact that we want to be able to use latex in our basically be able to run later from
our from within our source file or Java file.
So what we can do is we can enforce the fact that the user must must have a basically a latex underscore
home environment variable.
So we want to enforce that.
If somebody runs our Java application, the Java application must be able to find the.
A late take home and inside that there is a bin directory and then inside that there is a executable
for latex, for example.
So if I bring back the terminal, if I echo my path environment variables you see I have this take bin.
Export Logitech home equals this one.
All right, so we can save these and then we can say Echo Logitech, underscore home nothing.
And then if we source the Bashar see again and then equate.
Now it's set right now this Logitech home sets and then we go back here and check for this Logitech
home and then let's compile our Java application again.
And then let's run and then found environment variable called later home.
And now if this application is run, we can, for example, launch one of the latest executables, for
example, PDF run a PDF Latex, for example.
And the way we run it is we get the value for this path and then we join it with the, with the name
of the application.
So the application, so a string app is basically this path plus file dot or path dot separator.
Pass dart.
File dart.
Let's see.
Pass separator write in macros and Linux is the forward slash plus the name of the application pdf later.
And then we can execute some command with this application.
Right.
If you're familiar with how we use latex, you execute on a tech file.
But I'm going to run this command to just see which version.
So I'm going to say a PDF later hyphen hyphen version.
If I launch it in the terminal, so pdf later hyphen hyphen version and it gives me this feedback,
right?
So I want to inquire for that within my Java application.
So we say that
basically we have to use the runtime which emulates access to the terminal, get runtime, it's a single
tone and then let's create a variable out of it and then runtime dot execute.
This is equivalent to executing and a command line in the terminal from the Java application.
And then the command is going to be an app plus a hyphen space, hyphen, hyphen version and this returns
a process.
So process is because when you launch a binary application in terminal, the operating system creates
a process for you.
And this API emulates that.
And now with the process, we can hook up the output that this application gives the terminal to our
back to our JVM using an input stream so we can create a scanner.
A scanner.
Remember, a scanner is just an easy API for reading input streams.
So new scanner.
And when you create the scanner you can specify which input stream.
So as you say p dot get input stream and this means input stream means input to the JV.
What this means is that whatever output of the execution of this application is that goes to the terminal,
right?
And then and that's an property of this process.
Hooked that up to the input to the JVM.
Right.
And then we're going to say while a scanner has next, it uses the Iterable interface has next or has
next line.
We're going to read it line by line.
So has next line.
We're going to say that six out.
As candidate next line.
All right.
So we go back here and now we're going to say Java Sea.
We compile.
So P is already defined.
Where did we define P?
Oh, a string.
Okay, so let's call this just process.
All right, so go back here and then compile.
It's successful.
Must be okay.
So this we have to provide try cache because this can throw exceptions.
So and then if we're going to catch any exception and we're not going to do anything for now, we're
going to leave it empty.
So let's go back here and then compile compilation is successful and then we're going to run Java application
and now it says found in one take bin and then.
So let's see.
What we see right now is that.
So the question is, why is this not so see out?
App.
Let's also see what arguments we're getting here.
Let's compile again and then let's run.
Oh, okay.
So that's because.
For pasta.
Pasta potato is calling so we should use the file separator.
File separator.
Right because we want to pass separator means it's separator that use in the past environment.
But here we want to use the construct, the directory name.
Right, which is whatever that was a slash the PDF later.
Right.
So zip file separator.
So we go back here, let's just quickly compile, works fine and then launch our Java application.
And now we were able to find the later home and then we were able to execute that PDF later which is
this is the full path hyphen hyphen version.
This was the output that the terminal gave to our JVM.
And JVM used this process API to read the results back and into our Java application, and we just print
them back to the terminal.
All right.
So I hope you now have a very solid understanding of the flexibility that your job application provides.
You have the command line arguments, you can inquire the system properties for the JV team, and then
you also can inquire for the environment variables for the terminal and whether DOH is which environment
variables are available to your Java application.
Now once we compile our job application to native binary, we will lose these arguments.
Hyphen DX key value because there is no JVM anymore, right?
Once you compile to native binary, it's just the application itself.
You still have access to these command line arguments and you can still inquire for the environment
variables that your application sees.
Right?
But then the question is, if we lose access, how can we use this?
You set these values hyphen DX key equals value at the compile time.
So you tell the compiler, the LLVM native compiler that compiled Java application and set these flags
for the Java.
And these are already written in your executable binary.
So I hope, I hope you enjoy this lecture.
Please stay tuned and I will see you the next one.